hello and welcome to this online
tutorial on refeeding syndrome
today we're going to take a look at how
to identify these patients as well as
the best ways to treat them when you
stop this recording please take a moment
to leave a comment on what you thought
about this presentation and also what
you learned so let's take a look at the
pathophysiology of refeeding syndrome
what is refeeding syndrome well it's a
potentially fatal consequence triggered
by aggressive oral interval or
parenteral carbohydrate feeding
following a period of nutritional
deprivation due to the sudden influx of
glucose into the cells which have
previously adapted to a low glucose
metabolism the malnourished body's
regulatory processes become quickly
overwhelmed and the extracellular
reserves of potassium phosphate and
magnesium become quickly depleted
movement of these minerals into the
intracellular compartment causes blood
concentrations to become extremely low
which can lead to cardiac arrest
neuromuscular complications and
respiratory dysfunction so it's very
important that when we're treating these
patients and refeeding them that we do
it purposefully and slowly to avoid
these complications let's now take a
look at the patients at risk for
refeeding syndrome common
characteristics of these patients
include adaptation to malnutrition and
low glucose utilization a third of all
internally fed cancer patients
experience refeeding syndrome it may be
wise to pause this recording and think
about the patient populations listed on
this screen that way by reflecting on
these groups now we hope that in the
future you'll be able to recall
refeeding syndrome as a potential risk
factor when you see these patients in
clinical settings so how do we identify
patients at risk for refeeding syndrome
patients either need to display one or
more of the following a BMI under 16
unintentional weight loss of more than
15% of body weight in less than six
months or more than 7.5% in three months
or more than 5% in one
a low nutritional intake for seven to
ten days and laboratory indices such as
low potassium magnesium phosphate pre
feeding and low serum pre albumin or
patients need to display two or more of
the following a BMI under eighteen point
five unintentional weight loss of more
than 10 percent of the body weight in
less than six months little to no food
consumed for five days and in excessive
use of alcohol diuretics anti acids and
chemotherapy so let's take a look at how
to prevent refeeding syndrome patients
should not receive more than 20% above
their basal energy expenditure typically
we want to dose around 1000 calories per
day and gradually increase over one week
next patient should avoid excess glucose
with no more than two milligrams per
kilogram of body weight per minute so
that's around 200 grams per day and take
note that even a 5% dextrose solution
for interval feeding can precipitate
refeeding syndrome so definitely be wary
of that we also want to ensure
electrolyte stability for the first week
of treatment limit fluid intake to about
800 to a thousand milliliters a day
avoid excessive sodium to prevent edema
and also provide a thiamine supplement
if your patient is gaining over 1
kilogram a week this may indicate fluid
retention so this concludes our tutorial
on refeeding syndrome for further
information on topics relating to
clinical presentation of refeeding
syndrome repletion guidelines for
phosphate magnesium and potassium and
for some case studies on practicing
identifying treating and preventing
refeeding syndrome
go to our website at www.pedestrians and
then you'll be registered for free
access to any of our online educational
materials thanks for listening and check
back for more tutorials in the near
future